[Shaffer, R. and Mayhew, S. *Legal Linking: Citation Resolution and Suggestion in Constitutional Law* In the Natural Language Legal Processing (NLLP) Workshop, NAACL 2019, Minneapolis, MN.](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-2205.pdf)
> This paper describes a dataset and baseline systems for linking paragraphs from court cases to clauses or amendments in the US Constitution. We implement a rule-based system, a linear model, and a neural architecture for matching pairs of paragraphs, taking training data from online databases in a distantly-supervised fashion. In experiments on a manually-annotated evaluation set, we find that our proposed neural system outperforms a rules-driven baseline. Qualitatively, this performance gap seems largest for abstract or indirect links between documents, which suggests that our system might be useful for answering political science and legal research questions or discovering novel links. We release the dataset along with the manually-annotated evaluation set to foster future work.

[Michael J. Bommarito II, and Daniel Martin Katz. (2010) *Properties of the United States Code Citation Network.*](https://arxiv.org/pdf/0911.1751)
> The United States Code (Code) is an important source of Federal law that is produced by the interactions of many heterogeneous actors in a complex, dynamic space. The Code can be represented as the union of a hierarchical network and a citation network over the vertices representing the language of the Code. In this paper, we investigate the properties of the Code's citation network by examining the directed degree distributions of the network. We find that the power-law model is a plausible fit for the outdegree distribution but not for the indegree distribution. In order to better understand this result, we construct a model with the assumption that the probability of citation is a per-word rate. We calculate the adjusted degree of each vertex under this model and study the directed adjusted degree distributions. These adjusted degree distributions indicate that both the adjusted indegree and outdegree distributions seems to follow a log-normal form, not a power-law form. Our findings indicate that the power-law is not generally applicable to degree distributions within the United States Code but that the distribution of degree per word is well-described by a log-normal model.

[Michael J. Bommarito II, Daniel Martin Katz, Jon Zelner, and James H. Fowler. (2009) *Distance Measures for Dynamic Citation Networks.*](https://arxiv.org/pdf/0909.1819)
> Acyclic digraphs arise in many natural and artificial processes. Among the broader set, dynamic citation networks represent a substantively important form of acyclic digraphs. For example, the study of such networks includes the spread of ideas through academic citations, the spread of innovation through patent citations, and the development of precedent in common law systems. The specific dynamics that produce such acyclic digraphs not only differentiate them from other classes of graphs, but also provide guidance for the development of meaningful distance measures. In this article, we develop and apply our sink distance measure together with the single-linkage hierarchical clustering algorithm to both a two-dimensional directed preferential attachment model as well as empirical data drawn from the first quarter century of decisions of the United States Supreme Court. Despite applying the simplest combination of distance measures and clustering algorithms, analysis reveals that more accurate and more interpretable clusterings are produced by this scheme.

[Michael James Bommarito II, Daniel Martin Katz, Jon Zelner. (2009) *On the Stability of Community Detection Algorithms on Longitudinal Citation Data.*](https://arxiv.org/pdf/0908.0449)
> There are fundamental differences between citation networks and other classes of graphs. In particular, given that citation networks are directed and acyclic, methods developed primarily for use with undirected social network data may face obstacles. This is particularly true for the dynamic development of community structure in citation networks. Namely, it is neither clear when it is appropriate to employ existing community detection approaches nor is it clear how to choose among existing approaches. Using simulated data, we attempt to clarify the conditions under which one should use existing methods and which of these algorithms is appropriate in a given context. We hope this paper will serve as both a useful guidepost and an encouragement to those interested in the development of more targeted approaches for use with longitudinal citation data.
