
[Wan, L., Seddon, M., Papageorgiou, G., and Bernardoni, M. (2019) *Long-Length Legal Document Classification*. ](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1912.06905.pdf)
> One of the principal tasks of machine learning with major applications is text classification. This paper focuses on the legal domain and, in particular, on the classification of lengthy legal documents. The main challenge that this study addresses is the limitation that current models impose on the length of the input text. In addition, the present paper shows that dividing the text into segments and later combining the resulting embeddings with a BiLSTM architecture to form a single document embedding can improve results. These advancements are achieved by utilising a simpler structure, rather than an increasingly complex one, which is often the case in NLP research. The dataset used in this paper is obtained from an online public database containing lengthy legal documents with highly domain-specific vocabulary and thus, the comparison of our results to the ones produced by models implemented on the commonly used datasets would be unjustified. This work provides the foundation for future work in document classification in the legal field.

[Jerrold Soh Tsin Howe, Lim How Khang , and Ian Ernst Chaihttps (2019) *Legal Area Classification: A Comparative Study of Text Classifiers on Singapore Supreme Court Judgments* In the Natural Language Legal Processing (NLLP) Workshop, NAACL 2019, Minneapolis, MN.](www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-2208.pdf)
> This paper conducts a comparative study on the performance of various machine learning approaches for classifying judgments into legal areas. Using a novel dataset of 6,227 Singapore Supreme Court judgments, we investigate how state-of-the-art NLP methods compare against traditional statistical models when applied to a legal corpus that comprised few but lengthy documents. All approaches tested, including topic model, word embedding, and language model-based classifiers, performed well with as little as a few hundred judgments. However, more work needs to be done to optimize state-of-the-art methods for the legal domain.

[Ilias Chalkidis, Manos Fergadiotis, Prodromos Malakasiotis, Nikolaos Aletras, and Ion Androutsopoulos (2019) *Extreme Multi-Label Legal Text Classification:A case study in EU Legislation* In the Natural Language Legal Processing (NLLP) Workshop, NAACL 2019, Minneapolis, MN.](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-2209.pdf)
> We consider the task of Extreme Multi-Label Text Classification (XMTC) in the legal domain. We release a new dataset of 57k legislative documents from EURLEX, the European Union’s public document database, annotated with concepts from EUROVOC, a multidisciplinary thesaurus. The dataset is substantially larger than previous EURLEX datasets and suitable for XMTC, few-shot and zero-shot learning. Experimenting with several neural classifiers, we show that BIGRUs with self-attention outperform the current multi-label state-of-the-art methods, which employ label-wise attention. Replacing CNNs with BIGRUs in label-wise attention networks leads to the best overall performance.
