
[Adam Roegiest, Alexander K. Hudek, and Anne McNulty. 2018. *A Dataset and an Examination of Identifying Passages for Due Diligence.* In SIGIR ’18: The 41st International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research & Development in Information Retrieval, July 8–12, 2018, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. ACM, New York,NY, USA, 10 pages.](https://doi.org/10.1145/3209978.3210015)
> We present and formalize the due diligence problem, where lawyers extract data from legal documents to assess risk in a potential merger or acquisition, as an information retrieval task. Furthermore, we describe the creation and annotation of a document collection for the due diligence problem that will foster research in this area. This dataset comprises 50 topics over 4,412 documents and ~15 million sentences and is a subset of our own internal training data.
> Using this dataset, we present what we have found to be the state of the art for information extraction in the due diligence problem. In particular, we find that when treating documents as sequences of labelled and unlabelled sentences, Conditional Random Fields significantly and substantially outperform other techniques for sequence-based (Hidden Markov Models) and non-sequence based machine learning (logistic regression). Included in this is an analysis of what we perceive to be the major failure cases when extraction is performed based upon sentence labels.

[Michael J Bommarito II, Daniel Martin Katz and Eric M Detterman (2018) *LexNLP: Natural language processing and information extraction for legal and regulatory texts.*](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1806.03688)
> LexNLP is an open source Python package focused on natural language processing and machine learning for legal and regulatory text. The package includes functionality to (i) segment documents, (ii) identify key text such as titles and section headings, (iii) extract over eighteen types of structured information like distances and dates, (iv) extract named entities such as companies and geopolitical entities, (v) transform text into features for model training, and (vi) build unsupervised and supervised models such as word embedding or tagging models. LexNLP includes pre-trained models based on thousands of unit tests drawn from real documents available from the SEC EDGAR database as well as various judicial and regulatory proceedings. LexNLP is designed for use in both academic research and industrial applications, and is distributed at https://github.com/LexPredict/lexpredict-lexnlp.
